---
layout: home
---

<pre>
Hyper Extended is a constructed format which includes the following
sets

Fallen Empires -> Scourge. Including the Black Bordered Portal sets
One and Second Age.

No white bordered cards are allowed. No new frame or time shifted
trash is allowed. You must use the card from the set and can't use
reprints even going backwards. For example Ice Age contains Swords to
Plowshares, you can't use a Revised one, or a crappy 4th one. You
can't even use a gorgeous Beta one. Wrath of God is found only in
Portal, you must use that one. If a card is in multiple legal sets you
may use any, or mix and match to trigger your opponents.


All ante cards are banned.

Mana burn is on like donkey kong.

Hyper Extended features a restricted list:

Ancient Tomb
Burning Wish
Demonic Consultation
Dream Halls
Earthcraft
Enlightened Tutor
Frantic Search
Goblin Recruiter
Grim Monolith
Brainstorm
Hermit Druid
Memory Jar
Mind’s Desire
Mystical Tutor
Necropotence
Tinker
Tolarian Academy
Vampiric Tutor
Windfall
Yawgmoth's Bargain
Yawgmoth's Will

OBSERVE LIST:

<<<<==Unrestrict==>>>>

With a restricted list in place, it can be argued that *Tinker* has
few targets that can be considered “broken.” A powerful card for sure
but possibly a candidate for unrestriction. A world without Memory Jar
would almost certainly see Tinker unrestricted.

*Goblin Recruiter* has proven to be fairly benign. If anything Lackey
leads to far broken game starts than recruiter. It's synergy with Food
Chain was also over stated. Adding Food Chain to an otherwise
streamlined Goblin deck gives your opponent something to take with
Duress, adds a second color and over all just waters the deck down.

*Ancient Tomb* and *Grim Monolith* these two are to some extent paired
at the hip. The lack or emergant prison decks is concerning to a group
who loves to inflict misery and suffering on opponents. The feeling at
this point is that it may be safe to unrestrict one of these two but
likely not both. Ancient Tomb would allow for mono color prison decks
to emerge. Monolith would likely Turbo Charge Metalworker.

*Necropotence* ... is utterly fucking busted. If you thought we were
taking it off you are nuts.

<<<<==Restrict==>>>>

*Flash* is the basis of a degenerate, and frankly, boring turn one
combo that we completely forgot about. Rector / Bargain. I don’t think
anyone will have a good time with four copies of this spell hanging
around, but we can try it as a playset first.

*Lion’s Eye Diamond* has a converted mana cost of 0 and makes three
mana of any one color. It's pretty fucked with Yawgmoth's Will.

*Oath of Druids* is miserable but given the power level of the fatties
might not be that broken. There's also no orchard which gives opposing
decks a chance to interact a little bit.

*Time Spiral* when it resolves the game mostly ends. Just restricting
High Tide would also kill the deck. It's hard to justify restricting a
6 mana sorcery that exiles itself but it makes the turn 4 high tide
kill pretty consistant.

*Gush* seems very underwhelming given how mana bases work. It's best
home so far has been in Exploration / Turboland shells. Otherwise it's
been thrown into various tempo decks. It certainly can't be a 4 of
with Brainstorm running loose.
</pre>
